README.md, before:

# reconciler

The `reconciler` app is a cross-platform desktop webapp for charities to
reconcile their accounts and CRMS systems to align and audit donation
income and records, presently focusing on Xero and Salesforce.

Reconciler acts as an Application Programming Interface (API) client to
the remote systems, providing swift search and operation to effect
reconciliation.

<img width="1000" src="docs/reconciler.png" />

## Reconciliation Mechanism

The reconciliation concept centres on the use a unique key to link an
accounting income record to one or many donations in the CRMS system. In
Reconciler this linkage is known as the "DFK" or `distributed foreign
key`.

For example, a bank transaction in Xero recording an income payment from
the JustGiving platform might be given a reference "JUST-GIVE-01122025".
The Reconciler app can be used to find the related donation (or
"opportunity") records in Salesforce and add this reference to a chosen
Salesforce object's target field. Reconciler shows if the total donation
component of the Xero income (disregarding platform fees and so on)
equals the total of related Salesforce donations using
"JUST-GIVE-01122025" as the DFK. When the donation-related income total
equals the sum of related donations, the income and related donations
for this income can be considered reconciled.

Reconciler is presently configured to use the Xero accounting invoice
`Invoice Number` or bank transaction `Reference` to link to data in a
custom field created on a Salesforce Non Profit Success Pack (NPSP)
object. The example configuration file shows a Salesforce
`Opportunity.Payout_Reference__c` as the linkage target. The linkage
target object and field in Salesforce is customisable.

## Status

The project is in active development on a volunteer basis in partnership
with a UK charity and currently at early alpha testing stage.

The project currently supports Xero and Salesforce with further
integrations envisaged in future.

## Usage

The project is developed using Go, Tailwind CSS and HTMX, deployable
with embedded assets on all major operating systems.

Reconciler runs locally, accessing the remote systems with OAuth2
authorized connections. A [yaml configuration
file](config/config.example.yaml) is used to configure ssettings such as
the OAuth2 client details, the accounting account codes representing
donation income, the CRMS target linkage/DFK object and field, the
reconciliation start date, and other details.

A local sqlite database is used to provide search capabilities.
Connections to Xero are read-only, whereas only the target DFK field on
the configured Salesforce object may be altered through Reconciler
operations.

## Licence

Reconciler is provided under the open-source MIT licence. Please read
the terms of the [licence](./LICENCE).

Commit message:

docs: update description of operation of service in readme

README.md, after:

# reconciler

The `reconciler` app is a cross-platform desktop webapp for charities to
reconcile their accounts and CRMS systems to align and audit donation
income and records, presently focusing on Xero and Salesforce.

Reconciler draws records over OAuth2 secured API connections into a
local database to assist users to update a field in Salesforce donation
records to match an identifier from Xero invoices or bank transactions.
This process allows an organisation to bring the donation totals for
Xero income into reconciliation with the related Salesforce donations.

<img width="1000" src="docs/reconciler.png" />

## Reconciliation Mechanism

The reconciliation concept centres on the use a unique key to link an
accounting income record to one or many donations in the CRMS system. In
Reconciler this linkage is known as the "DFK" or `distributed foreign
key`.

For example, a bank transaction in Xero recording an income payment from
the JustGiving platform might be given a reference "JUST-GIVE-01122025".
The Reconciler app can be used to find the related donation (or
"opportunity") records in Salesforce and add this reference to a chosen
Salesforce object's target field. Reconciler shows if the total donation
component of the Xero income (disregarding platform fees and so on)
equals the total of related Salesforce donations using
"JUST-GIVE-01122025" as the DFK. When the donation-related income total
equals the sum of related donations, the income and related donations
for this income can be considered reconciled.

Reconciler is presently configured to use the Xero accounting invoice
`Invoice Number` or bank transaction `Reference` to link to data in a
custom field created on a Salesforce Non Profit Success Pack (NPSP)
object. The example configuration file shows a Salesforce
`Opportunity.Payout_Reference__c` as the linkage target. The linkage
target object and field in Salesforce is customisable.

## Status

The project is in active development on a volunteer basis in partnership
with a UK charity and currently at early alpha testing stage.

The project currently supports Xero and Salesforce with further
integrations envisaged in future.

## Usage

The project is developed using Go, Tailwind CSS and HTMX, deployable
with embedded assets on all major operating systems.

Reconciler runs locally, accessing the remote systems with OAuth2
authorized connections. A [yaml configuration
file](config/config.example.yaml) is used to configure ssettings such as
the OAuth2 client details, the accounting account codes representing
donation income, the CRMS target linkage/DFK object and field, the
reconciliation start date, and other details.

A local sqlite database is used to provide search capabilities.
Connections to Xero are read-only, whereas only the target DFK field on
the configured Salesforce object may be altered through Reconciler
operations.

## Licence

Reconciler is provided under the open-source MIT licence. Please read
the terms of the [licence](./LICENCE).
